Ladies and gentlemen, with a few notorious exceptions, every American is aware that our
farmers are in great trouble.
The few who do not seem to realize this appear to have found jobs in the Department of Agriculture
in Washington.
It's a sad but true fact that today for the first time in our history, the farmer has
become to regard the Department of Agriculture as his enemy.
While foreign income goes down and down, Secretary of Agriculture of Benson is still
talking about modernized, charity and flexible price supports.
Instead of coming up with a imaginative ways to solve the problem, the administration
concentrates on inventing lived phrases to discuss the failure of its farm program.
These phrases make confuse some of our city people, but they certainly do not fool the
American farmer.
The DOP approach to the farm problem is clearly illustrated in its attitude toward the
dairy farmer.
A few years ago, Secretary of Benson told the dairy man, the flexible price support program
would increase consumption, reduce production and raise the farmer's income.
Well, exactly the opposite has happened.
Production has increased, not decreased.
Consumption has fallen, not risen.
And the dairy farmer's income has every dairyman in your state knows only too well, has
dropped drastically.
Don't you think that it's about time that the Eisenhower Benson team admitted that it has
failed?
Don't you think it's about time that the dairyman got an even break?
The problem of the dairy farmer is shared by all farmers throughout the country.
Big business is making bigger and bigger profits, but the farmer and especially the small farmer
just can't make ends meet.
For instance, Secretary of Benson's idea of how to solve the farm problem.
It's quite simple.
Just move some farmers off the land and into the cities.
In other words, treat them like coal numbers.
But you know and I know that you can't deal with human beings in terms of coal numbers.
The administration has another way to solve the farm problem.
Eliminate the small farmer.
Ever since the Republicans took office, they have deliberately followed a program which
can only succeed in killing off the family-type farm, which is the basis of our nation's economy.
Now what are we going to do about the farmer since the GOP won't help him?
The farmer needs the immediate sort of relief which rigid, full parity payments bring him.
He also needs long-range problems to assure his continued existence.
My first act as president will be to find a Secretary of Agriculture who really understands
the needs of the farmer, and especially the small farmer.
I'll choose a man who has actually formed and who can sympathetically represent the
farmer's side of each question in our cabinet.
I consider the Secretary of Agriculture to be the spokesman for the farmer, and he will
be so considered at any cabinet at a point.
I will urge that Congress determine the two needs of the farmer and pass legislation which
will meet those needs.
Charity will be geared to the small farm and not to the huge corporate-owned farm by
absentee landlords.
It pains me to hear surplus food regarded as a calamity when there are hungry people throughout
the world.
I contend that we can solve the surplus problem, that we can use this precious surplus food
as a national asset by using it to feed the hungry abroad and the needy here at home.
I have already introduced legislation which calls for a food stamp plan to help distribute
this surplus among our less fortunate citizens at home.
I intend to push for its passage as rapidly as possible.
Here in the United States the Lord has seen fit to bless us with plenty.
Let us use that plenty to help achieve our goal of peace and a free world.
By helping others we shall also be helping ourselves.
I say these things not idly for campaign purposes but out of a deep conviction.
Throughout my 17 years of service in Washington I have voted consistently for the best interest
of the farmer and his family.
I have never wavered in my conviction that any so-called prosperity which does not include
the small farmer is a small prosperity.
I pledge that if I am elected president I shall continue to do all in my power to guarantee
the farmer an even break.
Thank you very much.
I was very pleased to open the current issue of look and find four pages devoted to my
family and me, my four little children and my wife Nancy.
Of course I like any man in public life or any man with a family it's very flattering
to have a picture like this.
I know that any of us in politics particularly when we have a busy year in the United States
Senate or when we are running for some national office with all of the vicissitudes and
partakes that one of the things that gives us confidence that makes us go on and do the
best we can is the fact that we have back home some children and a wife rooting for us.
I will ask a friend I first knew him long ago I knew him when we served together in the
house of representatives even then he wasn't just another congressman his abilities and
his qualities of leadership had singled him out for attention.
I have known him since he's service in the United States Senate.
I have watched him grow in stature and in influence like you I have seen his fame spread across
the nation.
During all these years he has been a last his friend the most striking instance of this
friendship came in 1952.
He was in Iowa in the early spring of that year in behalf of his presidential candidacy.
He had an important meeting when he heard that that very day there was going to be a vote
in the Senate on Alaska Statehood he cancelled the meeting through onto Washington at his
own expense and voted for Alaska Statehood.
I say there could be no finer demonstration of his friendship for Alaska.
So it is my proud privilege to present to you a great leader of the Democratic Party my
friend the tall man from Tennessee the man of integrity of honor of the people Senator
Estes P. Hoffman.
Very much delegates Bob Barton I certainly do appreciate the kind words that you have had
to say about me.
You have been a mighty good friend and you are a good friend and I want you to know that
I am a good friend of yours and of the people of Alaska.
I have enjoyed these many years Bob serving with you in the House of Representatives and
since I have been in the United States Senate I have been very close to you too.
You have always fought hard for the people of Alaska for every project that they have
been interested in and nobody could be more diligent in trying to secure the right which
the people of Alaska so greatly deserve the right of Statehood.
You have many friends and the United States Senate as well as in the House of Representatives.
You have presented your cause well and you are highly esteemed in the departments of
government.
I appreciate the good work you have done and I certainly am grateful to you for what you
have had to say about me here today.
It is always wonderful to have a chance of being with you and to talk about the prospects
of a great new wonderful part of the United States about the prospect of it being the
49th State.
Ladies and gentlemen, many years ago before Bob Bartlett came to the House of Representatives,
when I was still a member of the House back in 1939 I believe a dynamic Alaskan buttonhole
me and proceeded to lecture me on the merits of Alaskan Statehood.
He was so eloquent and so forceful and he had so many facts to back up his arguments
that I just had to listen and I heard from him of course the same thing I have heard
from many of my Tennessee friends who had gone to Alaska and had been entranced by
that great country and the possibilities there.
When he had finished Tony Diamond who is the delegate at that time at another convert
ever since then back in the late 1930s.
I have either sponsored or have joined in sponsoring and fighting for legislation designed to
bring about a statehood for Alaskan.
As a matter of fact in 1949 and Bob this was before I ever thought about running for
the presidency of the United States.
You came over here to the Senate and you asked me to take the lead and filing the bill
in the United States Senate to get statehood for Alaskan.
I circulated the bill among all of the senators and we got a whole lot of sponsors from all
parts of the United States and joining and asking for statehood.
I made a speech on the floor of the House on June 10th 1949 which I had told you about
Alaska while they should have statehood and we wanted to fight for it and I just want
to read the last two paragraphs of that speech.
I said to my fellow senators I am sure it would have been inconceivable to the founding fathers
that Americans anywhere or in any area should exist for long under the under a form of government
which denies them the benefits of suffrage and representation.
Alaskans have been denied statehood for more than four store years.
They should be denied no longer.
I speak for Alaska statehood and I speak for the bill the earnest and expeditious consideration
from the committees and the members of the Senate which it so rightly deserves.
And I wish I had time to read all of that speech but maybe some of the voters up there will
have a chance of reading it before they make up their mind in this Alaska primary which
is coming off shortly.
And then in 1952 when the statehood bill came up before the Senate it's true as you said
bill of Bob that I cancel an important engagement in Iowa to fly back to vote.
I did so because to me statehood is one of the vital issues before our Congress and I
wouldn't have thought about having the bill come up for consideration without being
here to vote on it.
And I was happy to fly back because I believe in the cause and not only flew back but I made
a statement at that time to my colleagues in the Senate as you know Bob.
Well in 1952 statehood we lost our fight but each year just as this year we introduced
legislation for our Alaskan statehood.
I think our chances for success this year are better than ever before.
We still face a long uphill battle but we won't give up the fight.
If I could invite all of the reluctant members of Congress to Alaska as I came last summer
we would have no trouble passing this legislation.
Your wonderful cities, your vigorous spirit, your fine people would convey to them far more
than my viewpoint that Alaska must be the 49th state.
If they came they would learn first hand what it means to be an American without the right
to vote.
In the past you have been moderate and patient in your demands for statehood but your efforts
to obtain home rule by degrees has always been unsuccessful.
Personally I favor immediate statehood and will fight for it until we get it.
Last studies of Alaska studies undertaken at great length to answer critics of my proposal
for statehood.
Convents me at the well and extent of Alaska's resources once they are properly developed
will make a great contribution to the economy of the entire United States.
These resources would be quickly developed if you had home rule.
The prospects for development of timber is only one example of what could happen if Alaska
had statehood.
The great timber resources of the Congas National Forest could feed the pulp mill at Ketchikan
as well as the two new pulp mills that pose that sicken and do know.
Development like this would place out eastern Alaska on a sound economic basis.
Economic stability will be further recognized when Alaska is gaining administrative control
over the fisheries.
And when the salmon runs are restored to their former condition.
In recent years opposing forces have always been powerful enough to block many important
measures like the abolition of fish traps.
With statehood this problem would not exist.
Government would be back in the hands of the people where it rightly belongs.
The great mineral potential of the sword to mention it is not a potential merely for
Alaska but for all of America.
Your vast hydroelectric possibilities can provide cheap electricity to make a laskan industry
boom.
Go mining too.
May one day make a comeback to its former important position in your economy.
If the service made to know that Alaska is now the only political subdivision of the United
States, not included in the Federal Highway Act.
And even Puerto Rico and Hawaii are included.
Alaska has been under the American flag since 1867.
You have today you have less than 4,000 miles of roads.
The reason you don't have roads is simple.
You must depend upon the up and down chiefly down let me say, direct appropriations from
the Interior Department or your road building.
If you have the vote, government departments would be more responsive to your wishes.
If you Bob for instance had a full vote in the House of Representation and we had two
United States Senators from Alaska, things would be very different.
The report of the Senate subcommittee investigating juvenile delinquency of which I am the chairman
gathered information which proves that Hyundai doubt that Alaska is being treated like
a stepson of our republic.
The Federal services to youth and the territory are appalling.
Alaska unfortunate youngsters who come into trouble with the law and who need sympathetic
help must be sent thousands of miles from home for treatment.
A condition which in itself can breed delinquency.
As a senator I have fought hard for a laskin statehood as president I will continue that fight.
I would consider it an important part of my legislative program and I want you to know
very positively that I am against fish traps too.
On April 24th friends the laskins will have their only chance to vote their choice for
president.
Whether you vote with the Democrats or with the Republicans I know you will vote.
The sound of your vote will be heard in the United States and I certainly hope that you
will support me in the primary.
I have fought for you.
I hope that you will give me a chance in an even more important position in the United
States Senate to continue to fight for your welfare and this I certainly promise to do.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen you remember the 1952 presidential campaign when the Republicans promised
to reform and give the working man an even break.
Well labor was suspicious of the Republican campaign promises and labor had good reason
to be suspicious.
The American working man had remembered only too well the raw deal he received under the
Republicans before Franklin Roosevelt gave him a new deal.
But in 1952 the Republicans did a good job of persuading a lot of Americans that they
had in truth reformed.
They promised the working man a secretary of labor sympathetic to labor centers.
They also promised changes in the task partly law.
So what happened you and I know that the Republicans never made good on their campaign
promises.
The Eisenhower team had been in the White House only six months when its own secretary
of labor resigned because the administration had broken faith with labor.
As for the promised changes in the task partly law the Republicans proposed changes all
right.
They proposed changes against the best interest of organized labor and sent them to Congress.
Millions of other Americans the union man has learned of his regret that Republican
campaign promises just can't be trusted.
Take the tragic flight of the farmer.
You all know how important that is in the future of this area.
Back in 1952 the Republicans promised 90 or 100% of parity and rigid price supports.
To the farm they broke that promise.
Instead of rigid supports the farmer was given a so-called sliding scale and you know
what that meant.
Under the GOP scheme the farmers always sliding to the bottom of the scale.
Well thanks to the NF Republican policy millions of farmers are being driven off their land
because they can no longer make ends meet and yet the price is paid by housewives with
food in the cities hasn't come down a bit.
You know this administration talks a lot about its faith in our American system of free
enterprise.
But how does it demonstrate that faith?
Well by encouraging bigger and bigger mergers while more and more small business men are
going under because they are being squeezed out by the monopolists.
All of you know how important it is to have plenty of cheap electricity.
You also know that the cheapest electricity results from competition by public power agencies.
And what is the Republican record on power?
Ever since they took over they have been doing their very best to give away our public power
facilities and put them in the hands of Wall Street.
Their attempt to sneak through the fraudulent Dixonates contract is just one example of
their giveaway program.
You people here know that this attack on public power involves an attack on R.E.A. which
is so vital to the prosperity of your state.
Workers are only asking for an even break in the marketplace.
And all the small business men ask is protection from the monopolies which are squeezing him
out of business.
And all of us in this nation of working men and women want jobs and wage security.
We also want peace and a free world.
I feel that the prime task of government is to create an atmosphere in which all can
be successful.
A stable, well-balanced economy is the only way in which security can be achieved, not
by a tough, heavy economy, in which the privileged few are favored above the great majority.
It is also the duty of government to see to it that laws are not passed which will restrict
the rights of labor to organize, to bargain collectively, or to restrict the individual
worker from expressing his personal political views.
Throughout my 17 years in Congress, I have energetically defended the best interest of
organized labor.
I invite you to examine my voting records.
You will find that I have been consistently on the side of the wage earner.
I voted against the Taff Partley Act for instance.
When I supported President Truman's veto audit, and I intend to do all in my power to
draft a new law or to amend the old one, a long line sparing to America's great unions.
If I am elected President, I intend to see that our government accepts its full responsibility
for the well-being of every citizen.
I believe in the American dream of equal opportunity and equal rights for every citizen.
I shall strive to make that dream come true.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Congresswoman Koye Kanutsen.
My friends in Minnesota, I want to speak to you for a few minutes to urge the re-election
of my very good friend Koye Kanutsen.
I came to know your representative in Congress at the National Convention in 1952.
Through the years of our association, both before and after her first election, I have gained
great respect for your representative in Congress as a person of hard work and dedication
to her constituents.
Koye Kanutsen has brought into politics her very kindly feeling toward people and has
brought into politics a high ethical approach.
First is your vice presidential nominee, along with Adelaide Stevenson, appreciated the
solid support of Congresswoman Koye Kanutsen.
On her first year in Congress, she became a voice for the family farmer.
From years of experience as a teacher, this lady legislator knows the need of education.
Her experience on a family farm as a triple-aid farm-filled woman gave the family farmer a real
voice in Congress.
Koye Kanutsen's service on the Red Lake County Welfare Board is the type of experience
few congressmen have had.
Since small business, another attribute makes her well-qualified and her present fight for
small business as opposed to the mergers which are constantly taking place.
These qualifications serve you well in Washington, D.C.
Second Koye Kanutsen has won national acclaim for the high moral approach she has provided
as a lady legislator.
She holds great respect among the leaders of Congress both in the House and in the Senate.
She has won nationwide respect for the work of her office.
Just this year she was awarded an engraved silver cup for a successfully moving legislation
to fight the most dreadful children's disease, septic fibrosis.
Congresswoman Koye Kanutsen has been called upon to speak on ethics and government before
national church meetings.
Koye Kanutsen was given a citation for Kristen Leadership, another woman of the National
Council of Churches.
These among other things demonstrated the love and affection of which Minnesota's congresswoman
is held.
Third year congresswoman has achieved major accomplishments in the halls of Congress.
Normally it would take years of seniority before a member of Congress is able to produce
major legislation.
However, hard work and intelligence has made it possible for her to do so earlier.
This is in addition to an above average attendance record on roll call votes.
You should remember these accomplishments of Koye Kanutsen when you cast your ballots.
The college student loan program past this year is the principle of Koye Kanutsen's student
loan program which she introduced several years ago and has been fighting for a long time.
The C-5 doses, the second most dreadful children's disease, has over one million dollars
in research appropriations due to her efforts.
The small business tax relief investment fund was passed this year with Koye Kanutsen's
good health.
The first step toward a family farm parity income legislation program was passed out of
the House Agriculture Committee, viewing good part to her efforts.
I want to urge each and every one of my friends to vote to re-elect Koye Kanutsen.
You have every right to vote with pride for Congresswoman Koye Kanutsen.
On the basis of experience and the triple A teaching business four years in the Minnesota
legislature with six state-wide bills as a result of her work, four years on the powerful
agricultural committee of the House of Representatives and four years as your voice in the House of
Representatives.
Be sure to vote November 4 for Koye Kanutsen.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is Senator Estes Tiefalvers speaking to you from the at the conclusion
of the fourth annual NATO Parliamentarian Association which has been held at the Talley de Chiro
in Paris, France.
We are very happy to have with us on this occasion a distinguished and able president of the
NATO Parliamentarians Association for two of our four sessions, panel Jay-J Fenn of the
Netherlands.
Panel Fenn is one of the leading members of what is equivalent to our Congress in the
Netherlands and he has presided over and has given excellent direction to the NATO Parliamentarians
Association.
It is good to have you with us, Colonel Fenn and to have you speak to this American audience.
Thank you very much.
Senator, I am very glad to meet you again in this week in Paris and in the first place
I should like to say that I am very grateful to you personally for the support and the
very great cooperation, you have been asked in our work this week.
Well, Colonel Fenn, then there is a task to work with you, personally has been so dedicated
to the cause of NATO and of the unity of the NATO countries.
I should like to ask very, you, the state is basically what do you feel the principal accomplishments
of this session of the parliamentarians has been?
Well, Senator, I think we should make a difference between a accomplishment done by the parliamentarians
and the settlers and I should say by the very distinguished archipers we have invited
to address you and in the conference.
I think we had a marvelous list of speakers.
We had in the first place General Norstead, the Prime Minister and a light commander of
the NATO, we had the Secretary General of the NATO, the Michel Polaris Park, we had the
German Minister of Defence, head of the Strauss, we had the very well known Michel General
of the United States, John B. Medehrs and we had the Secretary General of the OEC,
the Michel de Nassau, John.
I suppose, Senator, that this gentleman had filled to us was very and very important
and it could be only been very instructive, not only in general, but especially to us as parliamentarians.
But to now Colonel Fenn, one of our great programs is that the NATO Parliamentarians' association
is sponsoring the London Citizens Conference in June of next year on the Kent anniversary
of NATO and you have had a great hand in the direction of the arrangements for this meeting.
I would like for you to tell our American listeners are the importance and of the aims of
this most important London Citizens Conference of next year.
Now Senator, I should say I have to return back to the compliment you made me.
I think and I should say here, publicly, that you have been one of the, I think the
principal originator of this congress.
Well, you're very kind, but sure they made one and you.
And then the, it would be very unfriendly from us to say the assumed UIDs, but you were
kind enough to give UIDs to us and then we went on with the organization of this congress.
And well, I think the aim of the congress, I can put it in a few words, the aim of the
congress is to reconsider the status of the Atlantic community.
As you have already said, the, they'll have this congress as a, to commemorate the 10th
anniversary of NATO.
NATO of, 9th of 49 is not the same one as NATO in 59, I suppose, and I think you agree with
me.
And therefore, the intended to have a congress of citizens out of the 50 NATO countries.
There will not be a parliamentary congress, it will be a citizen congress.
And we thought that we should give the citizens supporting the NATO ID and the NATO community
of the Atlantic community ID, that we should give them the opportunity to give their opinion
not what has been done in NATO and in the Atlantic community, but what we should do in the
next 10 years in order to, to fortify the Atlantic Alliance and the Atlantic ID.
Well, I think that's a very good description of the intention of this most important
congress to give the people who must back up the NATO efforts and opportunities to speak
and to talk and to understand and discuss the problems of NATO and of the Atlantic community.
Well, kind of ends, I want to thank you very much for being on this program.
It's been an inspiration to be with you and to work with you throughout these years.
And we will look forward to the London Conference and its great success.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Tanya.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is Estes Keepovers speaking to you directly from the NATO Parliament
Parian Association in the Palais de Chau and Paris France.
We have had a very successful conference here in Paris, where representatives from the
Parliament and Congresses of 15 nations have been meeting for one week to discuss common
problems.
I'm very happy to have it our guest in the studio today, one of the most distinguished members
of Parliament of the United Kingdom.
Sir Thomas Duddale has been a member of the House of Commons for more than 30 years,
and he is the leader of the British delegation here at the NATO Parliamentarians conference.
Sir Thomas is good to have you on the program, the other listeners over this station, what
you think of our meeting and of its accomplishments.
We also have a huge pleasure for me to be here with you today in the studio, meeting from
Paris, because it does happen to be a first occasion that I have attended a parliamentary
conference of this nature, and I do happen to be the leader of the United Kingdom delegation.
For the first thing that has impressed me in all our proceedings during the week is the
large amount of human inhumane, which prevails amongst the NATO countries.
Sir Thomas, we have discussed matters of a political significance.
General Nostrad has briefed us.
We've talked about political matters, economic matters, social matters, and you say there's
been a tremendous meeting of the minds of delegates from all of the 15 nations.
That's correct.
And I think it's actually correct.
And it has been a great privilege to me, and I'm certain those of you who are listening
and doing this particular kind of our proceedings, when there is a set time of the chairmanship
or the Kiteva on a political committee.
And it is quite remarkable the way in which all the nations gathered around the table on
these chairmanship followed the guidance he gave us in the chair.
Sir Thomas, you are very kind, and I did appreciate that being elected chairman of the
political committee.
And I might say that I think on the political committee, the principal accomplishments
were first a united stand insofar as the problem of Berlin is concerned, so that the Soviet
Union and its puppet government of East Germany would make no mistake that if they do not
follow their responsibilities, if they beat their obligations and connection with Berlin,
all of the NATO nations would be united for the defense of the free world and West Berlin.
Do you think that was a fine accomplishment?
I think it was.
They found it accomplishment.
And again, the interesting was how much everybody was in agreement in passing that resolution
on the your temperature.
And we had a resolution of the main disputes that seemed to exist between NATO nations
present time, as in connection with Cyprus and also the Icelandic fishery matter.
And we passed a resolution to try to set up a better machinery for the settlement of disputes
among NATO nations.
And I think that is maybe a contribution that is worthwhile.
Sir Thomas, we are having the citizens conference in London next year, which I think is going
to be one of the most important things for the free world that has ever happened.
And will you tell about the importance of this?
You will be in a leading, you will be the leader of the British delegation at this conference.
And I hope to be there myself.
That is a very good deal, I think.
Well, I think it will all right.
I hope they are great success.
We are getting hold of citizens.
I do ask people to remember that we are citizens.
Not only part of the Italians, but the stingless citizens in the NATO countries.
The carbon gather together in London in June of next year to make a definite exhibition to the world.
How united we are after the NATO organization has been in being a ten years.
I want to say again, friends, I think this is one of the most important international meetings I have ever had
and opportunity of attending.
I am delighted with the solidarity of purpose and the unity of action on military, economic and political matters
that has been brought about between the 15 North Atlantic nations, composing NATO at this most important meeting in Paris.
I know that as long as we can stand together, there will be little danger of war because together we have great strength.
But our purpose is to have peace and freedom and whenever we can have this armament, the under proper inspection and controls,
all of the NATO nations want that.
And again, thank you very much Sir Thomas Duddale for appearing on this program.
That is all for now.
Thank you very much Sir Thomas Duddale.
Back in 1952, my good friend Fred Fiat traveled the Vermont campaign trail in my behalf.
And I have been keeping in touch with this outstanding public servant and with his good record since that time.
I saw him again in Vermont in 1956.
I took great pride in having a man like Fred engage in my campaign.
His record of public service as an outstanding member of the state legislature makes me equally proud at this time to support his candidacy for the United States Senate.
Fred's fight to obtain low cost power for farmers and electric cooperatives has been truly outstanding.
He deserves the support of the farmer, labor and small business man, as well as all forward-thinking people of the state of Vermont.
I am looking forward with a great deal of pleasure to serving in the United States Senate with Vermont's outstanding candidate Fred Fiat.